feat: add direction prop to PaperProvider and useLocale hook for RTL support (#4921)
callstack/react-native-paper: docs/docs/guides/10-rtl.md

---
title: RTL Support
---

# RTL Support

React Native Paper supports right-to-left (RTL) layouts for languages such as Arabic and Hebrew.

## How it works

On React Native, the writing direction is normally controlled by `I18nManager.forceRTL`. React Native Paper reads this automatically i.e. no configuration is needed for native apps that already set up RTL via `I18nManager`.

> However, `I18nManager` is a no-op on **React Native Web**, which means RTL layouts break silently in web apps. The `direction` prop on `PaperProvider` (and the `LocaleProvider` component) lets you explicitly control the writing direction so Paper behaves correctly on all platforms.

Reviewer: this is not full story, since calling `forceRTL` isn't enough. a re-render with the new value is necessary. also as I remember, with Expo it was needed to specify it in `app.json` in certain contexts instead of using `forceRTL`. so recommending to link to their docs instead.

it's also not right to say "lets you explicitly control the writing direction" since below we say it's only for informing, not controlling. we need different code on web to enable it (setting `dir` attribute).

i'd rephrase it to:

```suggestion
By default, React Native Paper reads the writing direction from `I18nManager.getConstants().isRTL` on native platforms. So it will use your existing RTL setup on initial render.

See [I18nManager](http://reactnative.dev/docs/i18nmanager) docs and [Enabling RTL support in Expo](https://docs.expo.dev/guides/localization/#enabling-rtl-support) to configure your app properly.

On the Web, the RTL value is not set globally, unlike native platforms. `I18nManager.getConstants().isRTL` is a no-op on [React Native Web](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/). To enable RTL globally, you can specify `dir` attribute on the `html` element:

<html dir="rtl">
  <!-- App content -->
</html>

Then, let `react-native-paper` know about it by using the `direction` prop on `PaperProvider` or the `LocaleProvider` component to match the writing direction in your app.
```
